Vocaprep aims to help English study by instantly making custom-made
vocabulary notebooks (voca-note) from media such as text including webpages
and ebooks or subtitle files (.srt etc) of movies before you begin to
read/watch. You will feel readings/watchings are easier after you studied
the custom-made voca-note generated by Vocaprep.

For example,

1. From a subtitle file, Vocaprep makes a voca-note of words which appears
in the movie but is probably unknow for you. 
2. Then, you study the voca-note and remember these word meanings.
3. Finally, you watch the movie. Wow, you understand every word in the
movie! (If you can listne :-P )

At this moment, Vocaprep is English-Japanese version, but every developer
for other languages is really welcome.

To get levels of words and Japanese meaning, Vocaprep uses an API:
http://d.hatena.ne.jp/n_shuyo/20100205/irt<br>
http://ivoca.31tools.com/api/wordlevel?word=word

## How to install and run

Vocaprep is written for the latest version of Ruby 2.1. (It's 2.1.2 in this
article.) This instruction assumes the standard Linux with rbenv.

Update rbenv and ruby-build to the latest versions and install the latest
version of Ruby 2.1:<br>
`$ rbenv install 2.1.2`

Clone the Vocaprep repository to your local:<br>
`$ git clone git@github.com:taro-k/vocaprep.git`

Set ruby version to use with rbenv:<br>
`$ cd vocaprep && rbenv local 2.1.2`

Make sure the version is set correctly:

    $ ruby -v
	ruby 2.1.2p95 (2014-05-08 revision 45877) [x86_64-linux] # may differ.

Install bundler for the version of ruby:<br>
`$ rbenv exec gem install bundler`

Install gems:<br>
`$ bundle install --path vendor/bundle`

For developer, put DB file for sample text (vocaprep/test.txt).
It accelerates your test run a bit although it's incompleted.

Also, download the corresponding DB file from<br>
http://winwinlinux.org/download/vocaprep/dictGlobal.db<br>
and put it to directory db of vocaprep. (e.g. ~/vocaprep/db/dictGlobal.db)

Then, run:<br>
`$ bundle exec ruby ./vocaprep.rb`<br>
or<br>
`bundle exec ruby ./vocaprep.rb --path vendor/bundle`

## How to use

The development is just beginning. We are first focusing on normal text as
input file. Then, subtitle files (.srt) will be supported followed by some
ebook formats.

At this moment, please set input text file as vocaprep/test.txt. More
functions will come in the future.

You may wait for long time for the first time run with new input file.
This is because of interval between API call.

You can set your level of vocabulary in vocaprep.rb and run again. Then,
only words above your level will be shown.

## Contact
Please contact via Github.com

For bugs, feature requests and other discussions:<br>
https://github.com/taro-k/vocaprep/issues

For other purpose:<br>
TBA

# Happy learning!

